[Music]
We live in a highly
technological society with fascinating advances in
artificial intelligence, design,
education, work and much more.
Today, digital manufacturing is
important because it allows us to produce
physical objects from
digital files, profoundly transforming
the way we design, prototype,
and manufacture our products.  Furthermore, it
opens up new opportunities for people
in remote areas or with less access to
technical training.  This not only
democratizes production, but
also allows rural schools,
community workshops,
independent and local entrepreneurs and people without
specialized training to create
solutions tailored to their needs,
strengthening autonomy,
local innovation and
sustainable development.
We arrived as settlers
in this area in 1984 through a government program that
caught our attention because it aimed
to populate this sparsely populated area
, giving young people the opportunity
to develop in whatever they
wanted. We were also very excited about the possibility of bringing
our children out to live a
life much more in contact with
nature, a fuller,
healthier, and more
natural life.  It was very difficult, very difficult.   You
're not used to the weather and the
hardships and the lack of things,
because here there was nothing.
In remote places where
access to technology was previously difficult,
things are changing today.  It's not just about
having machines, but about giving
people the real possibility of creating
their own solutions, of manufacturing what they
need when they
need it, with accessible tools and
designs that are shared online
with entire communities that are
finding new ways to innovate,
grow and solve their own challenges.
buy a small spare part.  For
example, I need to fix a
gear motor for a furrier; the gear
can be 3D printed, and that way I avoid
having to go out, buy it, or send someone to
pick it up because everything is difficult here in the
south, especially in these towns
where you not
only have to buy it, but you also have to
ask someone to bring it to your
boat or house for transport.  Then it's
quite cumbersome.  So this comes to
solve that, the issue of
practical things, being able to quickly fix
, I don't know, a piece of equipment that's
broken, or a radio, a toy, whatever
[Music] it is
.  Most of the vegetables in the
region are brought from outside and that's where
the issue of food sovereignty began
, which here is actually
very efficient.  The region
consumes around 18 tons of
vegetables per year, and most of them are
produced outside the region.  This project
involved reusing materials such as
plants and bottles found on
stranded islands.  All of this was combined to
create a hydroponic module, which
has characteristics that can be
adapted to the situations of each home.
Food sovereignty is not just about
having access to food; it's about being able to decide
how it is grown, how it is distributed, and
what is consumed.  In many communities
this has been difficult, but today
technology is opening up new
possibilities, from hydroponic growing systems
, printed with
3D printers, how we develop these days,
to locally designed tools
for planting, measuring, and harvesting.
People are taking control of their
own food; they no longer depend on
imported or expensive solutions.  Now
they can design, adapt and build what they
really need in their own
territories.  What has caught our
attention the most is this incorporation of
high technology such as
3D printers and everything that can be done with
children at school.  And obviously
this technology will be
integrated across the entire
subject.  These are isolated territories,
extreme territories where
highly innovative solutions are needed
.  Es un privilegio poder
haber estado ahí aportando con estas
soluciones.  We hope to be able to generate
other instances like this in the future.  In
every corner where digital manufacturing arrives,
not only are machines installed,
creativity and autonomy are activated, and
therefore hope.  Communities that
previously relied on external solutions
now design their own tools,
grow their own food, and solve their
problems with their own hands.
When technology is put at the service of
people, it becomes an engine of
sovereignty, justice, and a
shared future, because knowledge
should have no borders, and neither should the right to
create.
[Music]